website/docs: stages cleanup (#21558)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/stages/authenticator_email/index.md

---
title: Email authenticator setup stage
authentik_version: "2025.2"
---

> The Email Authenticator Setup stage enrolls an email-based authenticator for the current user and sends one-time codes to that address during later authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Email Authenticator Setup stage registers an email-based authenticator for the current user, enabling one-time codes to be sent via email during subsequent authentications.
```

## Overview

This stage stores an email authenticator device for the user. During enrollment, the user supplies an email address if one is not already known, then confirms ownership by entering a one-time code.

The enrolled device can later be used with the [Authenticator Validation stage](../authenticator_validate/index.md).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During enrollment, the user supplies an email address if one is not already known, then confirms ownership by entering a one-time code.

The enrolled email address can later be used with the [Authenticator Validation stage](../authenticator_validate/index.md).

```

I know that it's called device within the UI but it makes no sense within this context

## Configuration options

> - **Use global connection settings**: use authentik's global email configuration instead of stage-specific SMTP settings.

Reviewer: Could add a link to the email config docs

- **Timeout**: SMTP connection timeout in seconds.
- **From address**: sender address used for enrollment emails.
- **Token expiry**: how long the one-time code stays valid.
- **Subject**: subject line for the enrollment email.
- **Template**: email template used for the one-time code email.
- **Authenticator type name**: optional friendly name shown to the user in self-service settings.
- **Configuration flow**: optional authenticated flow that lets users enroll this authenticator from user settings.

## Flow integration

Use this stage in an enrollment or user-settings flow where the user should add an email authenticator.

To use the enrolled address during login, add an [Authenticator Validation stage](../authenticator_validate/index.md) to the authentication flow and allow the **Email** device class.

## Notes

- If **Use global connection settings** is enabled, configure the global email settings first. See the installation docs for [Docker Compose](../../../../install-config/install/docker-compose#email-configuration-optional-but-recommended) and [Kubernetes](../../../../install-config/install/kubernetes#email-configuration-optional-but-recommended).

> - This stage is separate from the general-purpose [Email stage](../email/index.md), which is used inside flows for email verification and recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This stage is separate from the general-purpose [Email stage](../email/index.md), which is used for email verification and recovery.
```

> - If the user already has an email address on their account, authentik can use that address during enrollment instead of prompting for a new one first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the user already has an email address on their account, authentik can use that address during enrollment instead of prompting for a new address.
```
